This project contains all of the relevant pieces of my undergraduate senior thesis, conducted at UC Santa Cruz in Winter-Spring 2024 and during the following summer. 

1. To see the old Python code I wrote for the project, see the "MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs (old x2).ipynb" file. The goal of this code is to constrain the cause of the Galactic Center Excess by generating the gravitational wave (GW) signal accompanying an unresolved population of millisecond pulsars (MSPs) in the center of the Milky Way and analyzing the detectable population using current and planned GW detector sensitivities. This was done by sampling MSP density distributions using MCMC and Inverse Transform methods to generate a population of MSPs, calculating the corresponding ellipticities from MSPs' internal magnetic fields, generating the rotational frequencies of MSPs using a Gaussian distribution derived from ATNF catalog data, generating the corresponding GW signal and smoothing with a few different angular resolutions, and creating histograms displaying the distribution of the average number of detectable MSPs and their corresponding GW frequency for the detectable MSPs in 50 different generated populations. See the comments in the code for further detail. This work was conducted using the MCMC Python package emcee (https://emcee.readthedocs.io/en/stable/).
2. To see the old versions of the Python code I wrote for the paper, see the "MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs (old).ipynb" and "MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs - Eckner Density (old).ipynb" files. The two files correspond to two different population distributions, boxy ("MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs (old).ipynb") and spherical ("MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs - Eckner Density (old).ipynb"), that we included in our work in the paper. The coordinate error that led to incorrect MSP distances present in the old code have been fixed and the calculation of the signal for each individual MSP and the GW spectrum for two different population sizes in comparison to detector sensitivities, as well as the updated the GW signal calculation including a moment of inertia distribution have been added.
3. To see the current versions of the Python code I wrote for the paper, see the "MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs - Boxy Bulge.ipynb" and "MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs - Eckner Density.ipynb" files. The two files correspond to two different population distributions, one with a boxy bulge ("MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs - Boxy Bulge.ipynb") and one with a spherical bulge ("MSP Populations, Ellipticities, GWs - Eckner Density.ipynb") that we included in the newest draft of the paper, after a response from our referee. The "boxy bulge" code has used a model for the boxy bulge pulled from arXiv:2008.10821 along with the usual disk component, and the "spherical bulge" code has been updated to include the disk component.
4. To see a copy of my written thesis, see the "Bartel_Senior_Thesis.pdf" file. Note that this work contains a few mistakes (see the changes to the newer versions of the code in 2. for more detail)--it's suggested that you review the paper for the corrected version of the work.
5. To see a copy of the presentation on my findings given at the UCSC SCOOP Senior Thesis Fair, see the "Senior Thesis Presentation.pdf" file.
6. To see a copy of the pre-print, go to this arXiv link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12271 

This work would have been impossible without the guidance and support of my advisor, Stefano Profumo, and the advice and feedback of Emma Strickland and Noe Gonzalez.
